# Preface

This document has been written to be used by a multitude of individuals who interact with Quilla: Test writers, web developers, plugin creators, and code maintainers. As such, not every part of this document is important to every user.

For all who are unfamiliar with the concept of XPaths, make sure to brush up on what they are. The W3C Schools website has a good section on them [here](https://www.w3schools.com/XML/xml_xpath.asp)

If you are a test writer looking for basic information on how to write a test, start by reading the section on [writing validation files](validation_files.md). This should give you the basics of how to write Quilla tests, including a couple of examples. Then, should you want to extend your tests using non-static information, such as getting data from the environment variables or from a definition file, read the section on [context expressions and context objects](context_expressions.md). Should you decide you need more extensible configuration or you need to get data from custom sources for your validations (i.e. accessing a secret store), checkout the section on [writing plugins](plugins.md). Finally, if you are seeking to integrate Quilla tests with Pytest, read the section on [the pytest-quilla integration](quilla_pytest.md) which will cover how to enable running Quilla as part of pytest.

If you are a web developer looking to maintain a definition file (or multiple definition files) for a QA team to write tests with, check out the section on [context expressions and context objects](context_expressions.md), specifically the subsection on the `Definitions` context object.

If you are a plugin creator, make sure you're familiar with [context expressions and context objects](context_expressions.md) first, since they are a key aspect of exposing new functionality for test writers. Then, check out the section on [how to write plugins](plugins.md) to get an understanding of how plugins work in Quilla and how to publish one so that Quilla will auto-detect it. Finally, use the [hooks](hooks.rst) reference to see what plugin hooks are available to you, when they are called, and what data is exposed to you through them.

If you are a code maintainer or are looking to make a contribution to the code, first make sure you have a good understanding of [how quilla works](how_it_works.md), how to [write validation files](validation_files.md) and how to [use context objects](context_expressions.md) so that you understand the general structure of the data that Quilla processes. Then, read up on how [plugins work](plugins.md) and which [plugin hooks are exposed](hooks.rst). For information regarding the packaging & installation process, read the section in the [installation instructions](install.md) on how to package. For information on the documentation style, dependencies, and how to build the docs, check out the [documentation section](README.md). Finally, for information on how to customize the make commands using various environment variables, read the [makefile variable documentation](makefile_vars.md)
